---
layout: post
title:  "Chapter-5"
date:   2021-03-19 02:39:38 -0700
categories: Procedural Content Generation Independent Study
---
Grammars and L-Systems

Although notably useful for generating vegetation, grammars and L-Systems are additionally useful for the generation of quests and dungeon-like environments for games like Zelda

Grammers

Formal grammars are sets of production rules for transforming one string into another. This consists of terminals in lowercase and nonterminals which can be converted to predescribed nonterminals and terminals.

Two key features of formal grammers are whether they are deterministic and the order in which they expand.In the case of a nondeterministic grammer, one might use probabilities to determine which rule to follow, or to use some sort of parameters in order to decide which rule to follow.

L-Systems feature parallel rewriting, in which rather than going through the nonterminals from left to right or right to left, instead each nonterminal is broken down in parallel. Originally this was developed to model yeast growth. For the simple L-System, the growth follows the fibonachi sequence in terms of string length. Koch's curve can be generated by F = F + F - F - F + F, in which negatives prescribe a left movement, and positives a right movement.

Bracketed L systems work the same, but include \[ and \] which act as push and pop commands for a stack. L-Systems and work with evolutionary patterns in which the righthandside acts as the genotype.

Another useful grammer is the graph grammer, which is useful for generating levels in terms of structure and mission. The mission might be to open a door, but there might be a split on actions by having the player defeat a guard for a key or sneak past the guard and pick the lock, perhaps pickpocketing the guard while they're at it for a bonus objective. However, graph grammars can be dificult to control. To help describe these graph grammars is Backus-Naur form.
[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/

